README.md, before:

# Valuer Agent Backend

A Node.js/Express backend service for antique and collectible item valuation and analysis, leveraging OpenAI language models and auction database integration.

## Overview

The Valuer Agent Backend provides API endpoints for item valuation, price justification, value range analysis, auction result searches, and enhanced statistical analysis for antiques and collectibles. It connects to an auction database service and uses AI models to analyze and interpret market data.

## Core Technologies

- **Node.js/Express**: Backend framework
- **TypeScript**: Type-safe JavaScript
- **OpenAI API**: For AI-powered valuation and analysis
- **Google Cloud Secret Manager**: For secure API key management
- **Docker**: For containerization and deployment

## Installation and Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Development mode
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start
```

## Environment Requirements

The application requires the following environment variables:

- `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID`: Google Cloud project ID for Secret Manager
- `PORT`: (Optional) Server port, defaults to 8080

Secrets are managed through Google Cloud Secret Manager. The primary secret required is:
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`: API key for OpenAI services

## File Structure

```
/
├── dist/                # Compiled output
├── src/
│   ├── server.ts        # Main Express server setup
│   ├── services/        # Core service modules
│   │   ├── justifier-agent.ts      # Valuation justification agent
│   │   ├── justifier.ts            # Justification logic
│   │   ├── keyword-extraction.service.ts # Keyword extraction for searches
│   │   ├── market-data-aggregator.service.ts # Aggregates market data
│   │   ├── market-data.ts          # Market data fetching service
│   │   ├── market-report.service.ts # Market report generation
│   │   ├── statistical-analysis.service.ts # Statistical analysis
│   │   ├── statistics-service.ts   # Enhanced statistics service
│   │   ├── types.ts                # Type definitions
│   │   ├── valuer.ts               # Core valuation service
│   │   ├── prompts/               # AI prompts
│   │   └── utils/                 # Utility functions
│   ├── tests/           # Test files
│   └── App.tsx          # Frontend app component (not used in backend)
├── Dockerfile           # Docker configuration
├── tsconfig.json        # TypeScript configuration
└── package.json         # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## Core Classes

### ValuerService

The primary service for interfacing with the auction database API.

**Key Methods:**
- `search(query: string, minPrice?: number, maxPrice?: number, limit?: number)`: Searches auction database with filters
- `findValuableResults(keyword: string, minPrice: number, limit: number)`: Finds valuable auction results with refinement logic
- `findSimilarItems(description: string, targetValue?: number)`: Finds items similar to a description

### JustifierAgent

An AI-powered agent for justifying valuations and finding value ranges.

**Key Methods:**
- `justify(text: string, value: number)`: Justifies a valuation against market data
- `findValue(text: string)`: Determines a value for an item based on its description
- `findValueRange(text: string, useAccurateModel: boolean)`: Finds a value range with confidence levels

### StatisticsService

Generates enhanced statistical analysis of market data.

**Key Methods:**
- `generateStatistics(text: string, value: number, targetCount: number, minPrice?: number, maxPrice?: number)`: Creates comprehensive statistical analysis

### MarketDataService

Retrieves and processes market data for analysis.

**Key Methods:**
- `searchMarketData(searchTerms: string[], targetValue?: number, isForJustification?: boolean, minRelevance?: number)`: Executes multiple searches and aggregates results

## API Endpoints

### POST /api/justify
Justifies a valuation based on item description and proposed value.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string",
  "value": "number"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "explanation": "string",
  "auctionResults": [...],
  "allSearchResults": [...]
}
```

### POST /api/find-value
Determines a value for an item based on its description.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "value": "number",
  "explanation": "string"
}
```

### POST /api/find-value-range
Finds a value range with confidence levels.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string",
  "useAccurateModel": "boolean" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "minValue": "number",
  "maxValue": "number",
  "mostLikelyValue": "number",
  "explanation": "string",
  "auctionResults": [...],
  "confidenceLevel": "number",
  "marketTrend": "rising|stable|declining",
  "keyFactors": [...],
  "dataQuality": "high|medium|low"
}
```

### POST /api/auction-results
Retrieves auction results for a keyword.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "keyword": "string",
  "minPrice": "number" (optional),
  "limit": "number" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "keyword": "string",
  "totalResults": "number",
  "minPrice": "number",
  "auctionResults": [...]
}
```

### POST /api/wp2hugo-auction-results
Retrieves auction results in WordPress-Hugo compatible format.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "keyword": "string",
  "minPrice": "number" (optional),
  "limit": "number" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "keyword": "string",
  "totalResults": "number",
  "minPrice": "number",
  "auctionResults": [...],
  "summary": "string",
  "priceRange": {
    "min": "number",
    "max": "number",
    "median": "number"
  },
  "timestamp": "string"
}
```

### POST /api/enhanced-statistics
Generates comprehensive statistical analysis of market data.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string",
  "value": "number",
  "limit": "number" (optional),
  "targetCount": "number" (optional),
  "minPrice": "number" (optional),
  "maxPrice": "number" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "statistics": {
    "count": "number",
    "average_price": "number",
    "median_price": "number",
    "price_min": "number",
    "price_max": "number",
    "standard_deviation": "number",
    "coefficient_of_variation": "number",
    "percentile": "string",
    "confidence_level": "string",
    "price_trend_percentage": "string",
    "histogram": [...],
    "comparable_sales": [...],
    "value": "number",
    "target_marker_position": "number",
    "total_count": "number",
    "price_history": [...],
    "historical_significance": "number",
    "investment_potential": "number",
    "provenance_strength": "number",
    "data_quality": "string"
  },
  "message": "string"
}
```

## Type Definitions

### AuctionItemWithRelevance
```typescript
interface AuctionItemWithRelevance {
  title: string;
  price: number;
  currency: string;
  house: string;
  date: string;
  description?: string;
  diff?: string;
  is_current?: boolean;
  relevanceScore?: number;
  adjustmentFactor?: number;
  relevanceReason?: string;
}
```

### EnhancedStatistics
```typescript
interface EnhancedStatistics {
  count: number;
  average_price: number;
  median_price: number;
  price_min: number;
  price_max: number;
  standard_deviation: number;
  coefficient_of_variation: number;
  percentile: string;
  confidence_level: string;
  price_trend_percentage: string;
  histogram: HistogramBucket[];
  comparable_sales: FormattedAuctionItem[];
  value: number;
  target_marker_position: number;
  total_count?: number;
  price_history: PriceHistoryPoint[];
  historical_significance: number;
  investment_potential: number;
  provenance_strength: number;
  data_quality?: string;
}
```

### ValueRangeResponse
```typescript
interface ValueRangeResponse {
  minValue: number;
  maxValue: number;
  mostLikelyValue: number;
  explanation: string;
  auctionResults: AuctionItemWithRelevance[];
  confidenceLevel: number;
  marketTrend: 'rising' | 'stable' | 'declining';
  keyFactors?: string[];
  dataQuality?: 'high' | 'medium' | 'low';
}
```

## Processing Flow

1. **API Request Handling**: Express routes receive client requests and validate using Zod schemas
2. **Secret Management**: OpenAI key fetched securely from Google Cloud Secret Manager
3. **Keyword Extraction**: AI extracts optimal search keywords from item descriptions
4. **Market Data Retrieval**: ValuerService fetches auction results based on keywords
5. **Data Analysis**: 
   - JustifierAgent analyzes market data and generates value justifications
   - StatisticsService calculates comprehensive market statistics
6. **Error Handling**: Structured error handling with appropriate HTTP status codes

## Deployment

The application is containerized using Docker and deployed to Google Cloud Run:

1. Build the Docker image: `docker build -t valuer-agent .`
2. Deploy to Cloud Run: `gcloud run deploy valuer-agent --image=valuer-agent`

The Cloud Run service must have access to Secret Manager to retrieve API keys.

## Error Handling

The application uses Express middleware for centralized error handling:
- Zod validation errors return 400 Bad Request
- API errors use appropriate HTTP status codes
- All errors include structured JSON response with error details

## Security

- API Keys are stored in Google Cloud Secret Manager, not in code
- Input validation on all endpoints using Zod schemas
- Express security best practices including proper error handling

## Development Workflow

1. Make changes to TypeScript files in the `src` directory
2. Run tests: `npm test`
3. Build: `npm run build`
4. Deploy: Push to the deployment branch to trigger CI/CD

Commit message:

Update README and enhance ValuerService with fallback search logic and cookie management
- Updated README.md to include optional environment variables for improved auction search reliability via the Valuer service.
- Enhanced the multi-search functionality in server.ts to implement a fallback mechanism that retries searches with adjusted parameters if no results are found.
- Added a method in ValuerService to build Invaluable cookie objects from environment variables, ensuring cookies are passed along in search requests when available.
- Improved error handling for fallback searches and cookie retrieval, enhancing the robustness of the search operations.

README.md, after:

# Valuer Agent Backend

A Node.js/Express backend service for antique and collectible item valuation and analysis, leveraging OpenAI language models and auction database integration.

## Overview

The Valuer Agent Backend provides API endpoints for item valuation, price justification, value range analysis, auction result searches, and enhanced statistical analysis for antiques and collectibles. It connects to an auction database service and uses AI models to analyze and interpret market data.

## Core Technologies

- **Node.js/Express**: Backend framework
- **TypeScript**: Type-safe JavaScript
- **OpenAI API**: For AI-powered valuation and analysis
- **Google Cloud Secret Manager**: For secure API key management
- **Docker**: For containerization and deployment

## Installation and Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Development mode
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start
```

## Environment Requirements

The application requires the following environment variables:

- `GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT_ID`: Google Cloud project ID for Secret Manager
- `PORT`: (Optional) Server port, defaults to 8080

Optional (to improve auction search reliability via Valuer service):

- `INVALUABLE_AZTOKEN_PROD` or `AZTOKEN_PROD`: Invaluable session token
- `INVALUABLE_CF_CLEARANCE` (and/or `CF_CLEARANCE`): Cloudflare clearance cookie value
- `VALUER_COOKIES` or `INVALUABLE_COOKIES`: JSON array of cookie objects to forward to Valuer batch (overrides the above if present)

When present, these values are forwarded to the Valuer API so the underlying scraper can authenticate and avoid empty results.

Secrets are managed through Google Cloud Secret Manager. The primary secret required is:
- `OPENAI_API_KEY`: API key for OpenAI services

## File Structure

```
/
├── dist/                # Compiled output
├── src/
│   ├── server.ts        # Main Express server setup
│   ├── services/        # Core service modules
│   │   ├── justifier-agent.ts      # Valuation justification agent
│   │   ├── justifier.ts            # Justification logic
│   │   ├── keyword-extraction.service.ts # Keyword extraction for searches
│   │   ├── market-data-aggregator.service.ts # Aggregates market data
│   │   ├── market-data.ts          # Market data fetching service
│   │   ├── market-report.service.ts # Market report generation
│   │   ├── statistical-analysis.service.ts # Statistical analysis
│   │   ├── statistics-service.ts   # Enhanced statistics service
│   │   ├── types.ts                # Type definitions
│   │   ├── valuer.ts               # Core valuation service
│   │   ├── prompts/               # AI prompts
│   │   └── utils/                 # Utility functions
│   ├── tests/           # Test files
│   └── App.tsx          # Frontend app component (not used in backend)
├── Dockerfile           # Docker configuration
├── tsconfig.json        # TypeScript configuration
└── package.json         # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## Core Classes

### ValuerService

The primary service for interfacing with the auction database API.

**Key Methods:**
- `search(query: string, minPrice?: number, maxPrice?: number, limit?: number)`: Searches auction database with filters
- `findValuableResults(keyword: string, minPrice: number, limit: number)`: Finds valuable auction results with refinement logic
- `findSimilarItems(description: string, targetValue?: number)`: Finds items similar to a description

### JustifierAgent

An AI-powered agent for justifying valuations and finding value ranges.

**Key Methods:**
- `justify(text: string, value: number)`: Justifies a valuation against market data
- `findValue(text: string)`: Determines a value for an item based on its description
- `findValueRange(text: string, useAccurateModel: boolean)`: Finds a value range with confidence levels

### StatisticsService

Generates enhanced statistical analysis of market data.

**Key Methods:**
- `generateStatistics(text: string, value: number, targetCount: number, minPrice?: number, maxPrice?: number)`: Creates comprehensive statistical analysis

### MarketDataService

Retrieves and processes market data for analysis.

**Key Methods:**
- `searchMarketData(searchTerms: string[], targetValue?: number, isForJustification?: boolean, minRelevance?: number)`: Executes multiple searches and aggregates results

## API Endpoints

### POST /api/justify
Justifies a valuation based on item description and proposed value.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string",
  "value": "number"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "explanation": "string",
  "auctionResults": [...],
  "allSearchResults": [...]
}
```

### POST /api/find-value
Determines a value for an item based on its description.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "value": "number",
  "explanation": "string"
}
```

### POST /api/find-value-range
Finds a value range with confidence levels.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string",
  "useAccurateModel": "boolean" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "minValue": "number",
  "maxValue": "number",
  "mostLikelyValue": "number",
  "explanation": "string",
  "auctionResults": [...],
  "confidenceLevel": "number",
  "marketTrend": "rising|stable|declining",
  "keyFactors": [...],
  "dataQuality": "high|medium|low"
}
```

### POST /api/auction-results
Retrieves auction results for a keyword.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "keyword": "string",
  "minPrice": "number" (optional),
  "limit": "number" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "keyword": "string",
  "totalResults": "number",
  "minPrice": "number",
  "auctionResults": [...]
}
```

### POST /api/wp2hugo-auction-results
Retrieves auction results in WordPress-Hugo compatible format.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "keyword": "string",
  "minPrice": "number" (optional),
  "limit": "number" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "keyword": "string",
  "totalResults": "number",
  "minPrice": "number",
  "auctionResults": [...],
  "summary": "string",
  "priceRange": {
    "min": "number",
    "max": "number",
    "median": "number"
  },
  "timestamp": "string"
}
```

### POST /api/enhanced-statistics
Generates comprehensive statistical analysis of market data.

**Request Schema:**
```json
{
  "text": "string",
  "value": "number",
  "limit": "number" (optional),
  "targetCount": "number" (optional),
  "minPrice": "number" (optional),
  "maxPrice": "number" (optional)
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "statistics": {
    "count": "number",
    "average_price": "number",
    "median_price": "number",
    "price_min": "number",
    "price_max": "number",
    "standard_deviation": "number",
    "coefficient_of_variation": "number",
    "percentile": "string",
    "confidence_level": "string",
    "price_trend_percentage": "string",
    "histogram": [...],
    "comparable_sales": [...],
    "value": "number",
    "target_marker_position": "number",
    "total_count": "number",
    "price_history": [...],
    "historical_significance": "number",
    "investment_potential": "number",
    "provenance_strength": "number",
    "data_quality": "string"
  },
  "message": "string"
}
```

## Type Definitions

### AuctionItemWithRelevance
```typescript
interface AuctionItemWithRelevance {
  title: string;
  price: number;
  currency: string;
  house: string;
  date: string;
  description?: string;
  diff?: string;
  is_current?: boolean;
  relevanceScore?: number;
  adjustmentFactor?: number;
  relevanceReason?: string;
}
```

### EnhancedStatistics
```typescript
interface EnhancedStatistics {
  count: number;
  average_price: number;
  median_price: number;
  price_min: number;
  price_max: number;
  standard_deviation: number;
  coefficient_of_variation: number;
  percentile: string;
  confidence_level: string;
  price_trend_percentage: string;
  histogram: HistogramBucket[];
  comparable_sales: FormattedAuctionItem[];
  value: number;
  target_marker_position: number;
  total_count?: number;
  price_history: PriceHistoryPoint[];
  historical_significance: number;
  investment_potential: number;
  provenance_strength: number;
  data_quality?: string;
}
```

### ValueRangeResponse
```typescript
interface ValueRangeResponse {
  minValue: number;
  maxValue: number;
  mostLikelyValue: number;
  explanation: string;
  auctionResults: AuctionItemWithRelevance[];
  confidenceLevel: number;
  marketTrend: 'rising' | 'stable' | 'declining';
  keyFactors?: string[];
  dataQuality?: 'high' | 'medium' | 'low';
}
```

## Processing Flow

1. **API Request Handling**: Express routes receive client requests and validate using Zod schemas
2. **Secret Management**: OpenAI key fetched securely from Google Cloud Secret Manager
3. **Keyword Extraction**: AI extracts optimal search keywords from item descriptions
4. **Market Data Retrieval**: ValuerService fetches auction results based on keywords
5. **Data Analysis**: 
   - JustifierAgent analyzes market data and generates value justifications
   - StatisticsService calculates comprehensive market statistics
6. **Error Handling**: Structured error handling with appropriate HTTP status codes

## Deployment

The application is containerized using Docker and deployed to Google Cloud Run:

1. Build the Docker image: `docker build -t valuer-agent .`
2. Deploy to Cloud Run: `gcloud run deploy valuer-agent --image=valuer-agent`

The Cloud Run service must have access to Secret Manager to retrieve API keys.

## Error Handling

The application uses Express middleware for centralized error handling:
- Zod validation errors return 400 Bad Request
- API errors use appropriate HTTP status codes
- All errors include structured JSON response with error details

## Security

- API Keys are stored in Google Cloud Secret Manager, not in code
- Input validation on all endpoints using Zod schemas
- Express security best practices including proper error handling

## Development Workflow

1. Make changes to TypeScript files in the `src` directory
2. Run tests: `npm test`
3. Build: `npm run build`
4. Deploy: Push to the deployment branch to trigger CI/CD
